+++
title = "Nim"
draft = false
+++

## About {#about}

Nim is a staticly typed compiled systems language.
It takes inspiration from python, ada and others.


### Features {#features}

Taken from <https://nim-lang.org/>

-   Nim generates native dependency-free executables, not dependent on a virtual machine, which are small and allow easy redistribution.

-   The Nim compiler and the generated executables support all major platforms like Windows, Linux, BSD and macOS.

-   Nim's memory management is deterministic and customizable with destructors and move semantics, inspired by C++ and Rust. It is well-suited for embedded, hard-realtime systems.

-   Modern concepts like zero-overhead iterators and compile-time evaluation of user-defined functions, in combination with the preference of value-based datatypes allocated on the stack, lead to extremely performant code.

-   Support for various backends: it compiles to C, C++ or JavaScript so that Nim can be used for all backend and frontend needs.

-   Nim is self-contained: the compiler and the standard library are implemented in Nim.

-   Nim has a powerful macro system which allows direct manipulation of the AST, offering nearly unlimited opportunities.

-   Macros cannot change Nim's syntax because there is no need for it — the syntax is flexible enough.

-   Modern type system with local type inference, tuples, generics and sum types.

-   Statements are grouped by indentation but can span multiple lines.

-   Genarics


## Notes {#notes}

-   [Metaprogramming]({{< relref "../../../../../pages/programming/2022-08-26-155254-metaprogramming.md" >}})
-   [nim android]({{< relref "../../../../../pages/programming/20230309222949-nim_android.md" >}})
-   [Prologue]({{< relref "../../../../../pages/programming/20230727225636-prologue.md" >}})
