+++
title = "Metaprogramming"
draft = false
+++

-   [Nim]({{< relref "../../../../../pages/programming/20220606215451-nim.md" >}})


## Metaprogramming in nim {#metaprogramming-in-nim}

Some notes From Nim in Action


### Generics {#generics}

Generics allow you to write programs in a style which you do not know the types until the algorithm is called.
It helps you with code duplication.
You can define as many generic types as you want!

Some languages may refer to them as `parametric polymorphism` also known as `templates`


#### Generic Procedures {#generic-procedures}

An example generic procedure from the book

```nim
proc myMax[T](a, b: T): T =
  if a < b:
    return b
  else:
    return a
doAssert myMax(5, 10) == 10
doAssert myMax(31.3, 1.23124) == 31.3
```

The compiler may not be able to infer generic types. You can explicitly set them with square brackets

```nim
doAssert myMax[float](5, 10.5) == 10.5
```


#### Constraining Generics {#constraining-generics}

Constraining generics makes it easier to convey to you and others the meaning of the generic.

An example would be to call myMax with two strings

```nim
echo myMax("Hello", "World!")
```

This will result in an error

<!--list-separator-->

-  type classes/concepts

    Concepts is also known as a user defined type classs in other languages, are a construct to create requirements that a matched type must satisfy.

    Example

    ```nim
    type
      Comparable = concept a
        (a < a) is bool
    ```

    Concepts are created with the `concept` keyword, after that is the type identifiers.
    In the example the type is matched when a &lt; returns a bool.


#### Templates {#templates}

Nim's `templates` are procedures that produce code. The easily allows you to deal with boilerplate code.
They allow you to inject varibles into the calling scope.
To call a template you just call it like a procedure.

Example from the book

```nim
template `!=` (a, b: untyped) =
  not (a == b)
```

you can define `!=` but you would need to define one fo each type or use generarics
An example would be to look at [star intel]({{< relref "../../../../../pages/2022-05-28-030619-star_intel.md" >}}) how i used to use function overloading and now i use templates.

<!--list-separator-->

-  Code blocks

    A code block is a set of statments. passing multiple statements into a procedure into a procecure needs anonmouse functions.
    Templates have a sepcial syntax to support more than one statement.

    Example from book

    ```nim
    import os
    template repeat(statements: untyped) =
      while true:
        statements

    repeat:
      echo("Hello Templates!")
      sleep(1000)
    ```

    the statments is replaces with whatever code block is passed. when passed it looks like this

    ```nim
    import os
    while true:
      echo("Hello Templates!")
      sleep(1000)
    ```

    NOTE: when a code block is passed, the last parameter always contains it

    <!--list-separator-->

    - <span class="org-todo todo IDEA">IDEA</span>  read on nim's do syntax

<!--list-separator-->

-  Untype Versus Typed

    -   Untyped: Allows Indentifers that has yet to be delclared.
    -   Typed: allows a indentifier that has a type and by concrete type like `float, int and string`

<!--list-separator-->

-  Template hygiene

    Templates can define vairbles that can be accessible after the template.
    you might not want that and this is called `template hygiene`.

    Example from book

    ```nim
    template declareVar(varName: untyped, value: typed) =
      var varName = value
    declareVar(foo, 42)
    echo(foo)
    ```

    Calling the template declares a new var becuase the the var is `injected` into the calling scope.
    Normaly vars are not injected into the scope, unless marked with the `{.inject.}` pragma.
    Trying to acess a var without that results in error.
